Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to do an exercise we're going to create an interactive task
list so this one I want you to follow along as well.
Within this lesson.
So go ahead and open up here Ed..
And let's start writing some Javascript code.
So the first thing that we want to do is set up our task array.
So let's start out by creating a variable.
So we're going to create an array and where you listo a bunch of our favorite tasks with the in this
array.
So go ahead and set up that array.
Pause the video and go ahead and add in some tasks within that task.
So just anything that you would be typically doing the day Duree doing during the day and next we're
going to look at the progress of those tasks.
So go ahead.
Set up that task array and then come back and we're going to continue building out this exercise.
So we had the opportunity to set up the task.
And now let's do some tasks so one of the tasks might be take out some garbage.
Another task in the array maybe we might want to read a book.
So that was a task and another one might be great javascript that will be another task that we want
to do within a day and then maybe also go to work or something like that so that we have a wide variety
of different tasks that we can work on throughout the day.
So next we need to specify our progress on these tasks.
So let's set up another array.
And we're going to have some progress that we want to specify within this task
so let's go ahead and add in this one another array and this one we're going to call it progress.
And then within here let's add in some progress where it's we've got one done and next one in progress
and not start it.
Or you can maybe just call it to do because this is a To Do list.
So let's just call it to do so that's good enough so now we've got three options here that we can be
doing for any one of the tasks that we have listed above.
So that's what I want to do is I want to ask and specify
We want to specify Within up prompt and ask the user questions so we've got our variable.
So this is going to be a response back from the promise that this is the same thing that we doing earlier.
We're creating that interaction with the user.
So we've got our prompt popping up there and now we need to format a question.
So let's ask them which task and we're going to just do one two three I them which Tasco shoes should
be 3:59 I ask them what task they want to mark their progress on or specify where they are with the
task and then the second question.
So question number two.
So we just call this one question one and this one can be Question 2.
And the prompt is going to cost status and also maybe what I want to do is I want to copy this down
here so I can do something like.
1 2 is in progress and three is equal to two.
And I'll just update these to equal science so I want you to pause the video here.
Open up your editor and add in another variable for another array for the progress.
You can just copy the same values that I have here.
So basically maybe even you might want to only stick to two.
It also depends on how much how in-depth you want your task list to be and then next set up the questions
first one asking what tasks we want to tackle and then next is asking what the status is that we want
to specify for that particular task.
So go ahead.
Plus the video.
And in the next lesson I'm going to show you
how we can pull this all together and make use of it.
And I'd put some results within our consul.
So welcome back and I hope you had an opportunity to add this into your editor and try it out.
Go ahead and see that refreshed the page.
So we see that we're getting asked for the questions and so everything is working properly.
And let's also put a task there.
So we've got all of our array values that are contained within that task.
And I believe that you might have different ones and me depending on what what you thought was needed
to get done during the day and then next.
We've gone to progress as well.
So it's always a good idea to go into your console just to make sure that those values are there and
that there's nothing wrong with your script that everything is functioning properly and everything looks
to be proper.
And so now we're able to actually create a result.
So we've asked that two questions.
First one has got to ask which task we want to tackle.
The second one is asking what status we want to enter in.
How far of the progress we want to specify for that task.
And so lastly let's just add this into the console because we've got the console opened up here and
will console log the results.
So let's say that for
today
you will.
And let's add in string value.
So remember we have to recall the value of the task and with that number here within the question.
So let's go ahead and put that within the brackets.
So this is the same thing.
First I'll show you if we're just going to use some defaults of one and then I'll bring in the values
of the questions.
So next
you have status or you just put status of task and will put an equal sign there.
And then next we need to concatenate in some additional information into this return result.
So we're going to put progress and we're going to use the default of one as well.
So this is just a default console message and go ahead.
Try this out.
We're going to refresh it.
So which tasks do we want to tackle.
And we haven't linked in the questions yet.
So it actually doesn't matter.
Today you will read a book status of the task is in progress.
So next thing that I want you to do is to pause the video and create a dynamic response from the prompts
into the console.
So dynamically allow the user to pick one of the tasks and then also pick the status of the task and
see the result within the console.
And one thing to note that that the arrays do start with zero.
So this one is zero.
That one is one that's two and that's three.
So there's a bit of a challenge in there that you've got to make sure that the user is only picking
one to four because there's four items in here.
But we want to make sure that the user can actually select the correct one the corresponding task.
So take a look at the code plus the video and I'm going to show you the solution coming up.
So you got an opportunity to try that out and we know that our products are returning values here so
we can put the value of question 1 and Question 2 in there.
And one thing to note that these values are not going to correspond with the items there.
We do need to be more specific that we want to actually return a task value.
So let's update the return value of the prompt and we're going to do.
QUESTION And we're going to subtract one from the value of question and the same thing we need to do
as well for the question to we need to subtract a value of 1 from that.
QUESTION So try that out.
Open up your browser refresh the page and let's see if this works.
So what's TASC and we've got our Taso one two three four.
Not to get confused with the index values with an array.
So let's take the first task
which is take out the garbage and then the second one for progress.
Let's see that this one is to do.
So we're going to give it a 3.
So today you will take out garbage status of task is to do.
So everything is working properly.
And this was important to know that we always need to start.
We started zero with the index values.
And when we were calling the array items we need to use the index value.
So that's where we've got that negative one that we needed to add in there just to be sure that we're
just to be correct in correct selecting that correct index value.
So the next lesson we're going to look at some Are rate properties and to make this even more dynamic.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.